# Project-290
9.8 MW Biomass based power generation unit at Khajuri
_______________
Animesh Ispat Private Limited has set up a 9.8 MW Biomass based power generation unit at
Khajuri village of Baloda tehsil, Raipur district of Chhattisgarh state of india.
This is a Greenfield project.
The Project commissioned in 30-12-2008.
The purpose of the project is the construction and operation of a grid connected electricity generation
unit using biomass (Rice Husk). The biomass project generation facility will involve installation of
a 75 TPH nominal capacity Circulating Fluidized Bed Combustion Boiler. The boiler and the turbogenerator are installed with the necessary auxiliary plants and systems required for the efficient
operation of the biomass based power plant.
The power generated is at 11 kv and then stepped up from 11/33 kv transformers and supplied to grid
and then it is stepped up further from 33/132 kv Khakurdi substation, which is a part of Unified Indian
grid system in place of what would otherwise be a mix of sources consisting predominantly of fossil
fuel based).
By implementing this project activity, which has a capacity of 9.8 MW, Animesh Ispat Private Limited
(AIPL) would help mitigate and marginally displace carbon intensive GHG emissions from the Indian
grid, and help conserve nonrenewable fossil fuels. The project brings in local as well as global
environmental benefits and also contributes to socio-economic development. The project participant
lists below the various aspects of the project activity under each sustainable development indicator
as required by the host country:
Hence, project activity is displacing the estimated annual net electricity generation i.e.,
61810.56MWh from the Indian grid system, which otherwise would have been generated by the
operation of fossil fuel-based grid-connected power plants. The project activity doesn’t involve any
GHG emission sources. The estimated annual CO2e emission reductions by the project activity are
expected to be 55629.50 tCO2e, whereas actual emission reduction achieved during the first CoU
period shall be submitted as a part of first monitoring and verification. 

# CDM Prior History: 
______
CDM Registered Project: Project: 1175
_______________
Reporting of status of a registered project activity or programme of activities
_________________
Related project or issuance	9.8 MW Renewable Energy Generation for the grid at South Asian Agro Industries Limited in Raipur District, Chattisgarh.
_____________
Reason	The CDM verification contract has been terminated
_______________
Comments	The PP and DNV Climate Change Services AS mutually agreed to discontinue the verification due to the general market conditions.
_________________
Last submitted at	13.10.2014 15:21:29
_______________
CDM Crediting Period	01 Feb 08 - 31 Jan 18 (Fixed)
Monitoring report submitted for the period : 01 Feb 2008 - 31 Dec 2009 
CDM Issuance request state: Awaiting issuance request
